Description:

This repository contains Python code for setting up a system to process documents using AI embeddings and OpenSearch for search functionality. The system is designed to encode document content into embeddings and then perform similarity-based search queries to retrieve relevant documents.

Setup:

Install Required Packages:
Ensure Python is installed on your system.
Install the necessary Python packages using the following command:
Copy code
pip install openai langchain unstructured pdf2image tabulate libmagic num2words tiktoken opensearch-py boto3 sentence-transformers
Model Initialization:
Initialize a Sentence Transformer model for encoding sentences into embeddings. The model used in this code is all-MiniLM-L6-v2.
Text Normalization:
Define a function custom_normalize_text to normalize text data by removing redundant characters and spaces.
Document Preparation:
Prepare a list of documents (docs) containing descriptions of AI events.
Document Encoding:
Encode each document using the Sentence Transformer model to generate document embeddings (document_embeddings).
OpenSearch Setup:
Set up a connection to an OpenSearch (formerly Elasticsearch) instance using the OpenSearch class from the opensearchpy library. Provide the necessary host, port, and authentication credentials.
Index Creation:
Create an index named demo in the OpenSearch instance with specific settings and mappings for storing document embeddings.
Indexing Documents:
Index each document along with its corresponding embedding into the OpenSearch index.
User Query Processing:
Encode a user query using the Sentence Transformer model and perform a nearest neighbor search in the OpenSearch index to find the most relevant document to the user query.
Search Result Display:
Display the document most relevant to the user query along with its text content.
Usage:

Run the Python script containing the code to set up the document processing and search system.
Provide input documents and queries as required.
Retrieve relevant documents based on semantic similarity to the user query.
Dependencies:

Python 3.x
Required Python packages:
opensearch-py
boto3
sentence-transformers

Contributing:

Contributions to improve the code or add new features are welcome. Please open an issue or pull request for discussion.
License:

This code is provided under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
Author:

Acknowledgments:

Thanks to the developers of the open-source libraries used in this project for their contributions.
Inspiration for this project came from the need to efficiently search and retrieve relevant documents based on semantic similarity.